.. _embedded_vscode_integration:

VSCode Integration
##################

Infuse-IoT implements extension west commands to automatically generate VSCode
configuration files for development and debugging.

Editor Configuration
********************

Generating a basic configuration file for Infuse-IoT applications is done with
the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    west vscode

.. warning::

    This command overwrites any previous content in the listed files.

This generates the following files:

`settings.json`_
================

  * Automatic code formatting:

    *  c: ``clang-format``
    *  python: ``ruff``

  * Indentation settings for ``cmake``, ``c``, ``dts`` and ``kconfig`` files

Searching inside VSCode can sometimes be frustrating due to the duplication of files
by build and test commands. This results in multiple copies of the same file existing in different
locations, cluttering the search results. Common build paths can be excluded from the
search results by appending the ``--search-exclude`` option to ``west vscode``.

.. note::

  The default ``west build`` output directory (``build``) is not excluded from search results
  due to the presence of useful autogenerated files such as ``zephyr.dts``, ``devicetree_generated.h``
  and more.

`extensions.json`_
==================

Recommended extensions for working with Zephyr, CMake and C projects.

`snippets.json`_
================

Quick generation of new file prefixes for ``.c`` and ``.h`` headers through typing
``new_file_c`` or ``new_file_h`` in a file.

Application Configuration
*************************

Once an application has been built, Infuse-IoT can generate application specific
configuration files for Intellisense and debugging:

.. code-block:: bash

    west build -b nrf52840dk/nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world
    west vscode -d build/nrf52840dk/nrf52840/hello_world

.. note::

    The previous command assumes you have configured application specific build directories
    with ``west config build.dir-fmt "build/{board}/{app}"``.

`c_cpp_properties.json`_
========================

Intellisense configuration for the specified application.

`launch.json`_
==============

Debugger configuration to launch a new instance of, or attach to a running instance of the
application.

.. _settings.json: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_settings-json-file
.. _extensions.json: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-marketplace#_workspace-recommended-extensions
.. _snippets.json: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets
.. _c_cpp_properties.json: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/c-cpp-properties-schema-reference
.. _launch.json: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/launch-json-reference
